Artificial Intelligence is the attempt to automate human intellectual tasks.

originally the question was "can we make computers think?" .
initially AI was simply a predefined set of rules for completing a task to
achieve a goal. AI can be simple or complex.

The way AI was judged to be good or bad was simply by the quality of the predefined
rules.

hierarchy:
- AI: uses a set of rules to achieve a goal.
    - ML: takes the data and figures out what the rule should be.
        - NN: Neural Networks/Deep Learning is a form of machine learning using
               a layered representation of data.


Classical Programming:
    - takes in data and rules and produces answers
Machine Learning:
    - takes in data an answers and produces rules
    - there is an Input layer and an Output layer and there are simply rules
    connecting these.

Neural Networks:
    - There's an input layer, and between this and the output layer there are
    multiple hidden layers processing the data eventually reaching the output
    layer.
    - Neural Networks are not actually modelled around how our brain works although
    there is a biological inspiration for the name.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                        Data:
    dataset:
            1  2  3
Midterm 1: 70 60 40
midterm 2: 80 90 50
final    : 77 84 38

Assume we are given midterm 1 and final grade and we are predicting midterm 2:

the inputs (midterm 1 and final) are called "features".

the output (midterm 2) is called the "label".

For most machine learning models we need lots of data so the model can come up with
the best generalised rules for future input features.

when training the model we give it all the information including both labels and
features.

when testing hte model we only give it the features.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                        Different types of machine learning:

- unsuperverised learning
- supervised learning
- Reinforcement Learning

Supervised Learning:

Features -> Label(s)

we pass the features and labels and the machine learning model learns from both
labels and features.

the reason this is called supervised is that initally the model makes some arbitrary
prediction and then compares this prediction to the actual value and alters the
rules slightly based on this. Thus the model is being supervised and improved in
such a way.

most machine learning is done using supervised learning.

Unsupervised learning:

this is when we only have features, and absolutely no labels.

we need the model to come up with labels for us.

the way this is done is by having the model group/classify groups of feature
clusters where there is a group of similar data and classify them as such
thus when given a new set of features to predict from it checks which cluster
the features fit into best.

Reinforcement Learning:

this is where we don't have any actual data.

all we have is an agent, an environment and a reward.

for example:
we could have an agent within an environment with a flag at the end of it.
and every time the agent takes a step closer to the flag we give the agent a
reward




