Tensorflow:

tensorflow is an open-source machine learning library maintained and supported by google

tensorflow allows us to do machine learning without some of the more complicated mathematics.

as we learn more about machine learning the maths becomes more and more complicated, tensorflow allows us to avoid this.


we can do these with tensorflow:
    - image classification
    - data clustering
    - regression
    - reinforcement learning
    - natural language processing


how does tensorflow work:
tensorflow has two main components:
    - graphs
    - sessions

essentially what we do when we code in tensorflow we add to a computational graph
it is similar to writing down an equation without actually evaluating it.

it is called a graph because the computations are linked:

lets say we have variables v1, v2,v3

we want to know what v1 is.

but v1 = v2 + v3

this would mean we would have to compute the values of v2 and v3 before evaluating v1

a tensorflow session allows us to execute partof the graph it handles and allocates execution, memory and resources
which we have defined.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tensors:

a tensor is a vector generalised to higher dimensions

a vector is a datapoint
a vector can have any number of dimensions.
for example you have a 2 dimensional datapoint with an x and y value
each tensor represents a partially defined computation which will eventually produce a value.

a tensor has a data type and shape:
data type: float32 int32 string and others
shape: represents the dimensions of data

here is an example tensor:
string = tf.Variable("hello", tf.string)

this tensor has a shape of 1, meaning it is a scalar value meaning it has only one value
a vector is an array of values
a matrix is an array of arrays within which there are values

The rank/degree of tensors:

the rank or degree of a tensor is simply the number of dimensions involved in the tensor

the tensors above are all scalars so they have rank 0

This is a rank 1 tensor:
rank1 = tf.Variable(["Test", "Test2"], tf.String)
it is a vector and is a rank 1 tensor because it has 1 list and can store multiple values in one list.

this is a rank 2 tensor:
rank2 = tf.Variable([["ali","kamel"],["keira","gratton"]], tf.String)
it is a matrix and is a rank 2 tensor because it has a list inside a list

to determine the rank of a tensor we simply call:
tf.rank([tensor])

to get shape we can type
tensor.shape

apart from tf.Variable all other tensors are immutable meaning their value cannot change during execution:
    - tf.Constant
    - tf.Placeholder
    - tf.SparseTensor

thus, if tf.Variable is used this implies we expect this to change.

sometimes when we need to evaluate a tensor we do so using a tf.Session():

with tf.Session as sess:
    tensor.eval() #tensor here is of course the tensor which is being evaluated.













